(velph_subcommands)=
# `velph` subcommands

The `velph` subcommands, except for {ref}`velph_init` and {ref}`velph_hints`,
are explained on this page.

The following subcommands must be executed in the directory containing the
`velph.toml` file. This ensures that the directories and files generated are
properly organized relative to the current directory where `velph.toml` is
located.

In the following example, two `velph init` command operations generate two
different directories. The first operation performs crystal structure relaxation
in the `relax` directory. The second operation, using the relaxed crystal
structure, carries out additional calculations required for electron-phonon
interactions in the `calc` directory. Details about `velph-tmpl.toml` are
described in {ref}`velph_init_template`.

```bash
% ls
POSCAR-unitcell  POTCAR  velph-tmpl.toml
% velph init --template-toml velph-tmpl.toml POSCAR-unitcell relax
...
% cd relax
% velph relax generate
...
# Run VASP relaxation calculation
...
% cd ..
% ls
POSCAR-unitcell  POTCAR  relax/  velph-tmpl.toml
% velph init --template-toml velph-tmpl.toml `ls relax/relax/iter*/CONTCAR|tail -n 1` calc
...
% cd calc
% ls
POTCAR  velph.toml
% velph nac generate
VASP input files were made in "nac".
% ls
POTCAR  nac/  velph.toml
...
# Run NAC calculation
...
% velph phelel init
Found "nac" directory. Read NAC params.
"phelel/phelel_disp.yaml" was generated.
VASP input files will be generated by "velph phelel generate".
% velph phelel generate
VASP input files were generated in "phelel/disp-000".
VASP input files were generated in "phelel/disp-001".
VASP input files were generated in "phelel/disp-002".
VASP input files were generated in "phelel/disp-003".
VASP input files were generated in "phelel/disp-004".
% ls
POTCAR  nac/  phelel/  velph.toml
% velph phelel init
Found "nac" directory. Read NAC params.
"phelel/phelel_disp.yaml" was generated.
VASP input files will be generated by "velph phelel generate".
...
```

## `velph phelel`

This subcommand calculates the derivatives of local potentials and PAW strengths
with respect to displacement, performing similar operations as steps 1 and 3
carried out by the `phelel` command in the {ref}`workflow <workflow_minimal>`.

The subcommands below should be executed in the following order:

1. {ref}`velph_phelel_init_subcommand`
2. {ref}`velph_phelel_generate_subcommand`
3. {ref}`velph_phelel_differentiate_subcommand`
4. {ref}`velph_phelel_phonopy_subcommand` (optional)

(velph_phelel_init_subcommand)=
### `velph phelel init`

This subcommand generates the `phelel_disp.yaml` file, which contains
information about the supercell structure and displacements. It is recommended
to generate `phelel_disp.yaml` after performing the NAC calculation (see
{ref}`velph_nac_subcommand`). At this stage, the dielectric constant and Born
effective charges are written to `phelel_disp.yaml`, and these values are
ultimately stored in `phelel_params.hdf5` through the `phelel_disp.yaml` file.

```bash
% velph phelel init
Found "nac" directory. Read NAC params.
"phelel/phelel_disp.yaml" was generated.
VASP input files will be generated by "velph phelel generate".
```

(velph_phelel_generate_subcommand)=
### `velph phelel generate`

VASP input files and job scripts are generated.

```bash
% velph phelel generate
VASP input files were generated in "phelel/disp-000".
VASP input files were generated in "phelel/disp-001".
VASP input files were generated in "phelel/disp-002".
VASP input files were generated in "phelel/disp-003".
VASP input files were generated in "phelel/disp-004".
```

(velph_phelel_differentiate_subcommand)=
### `velph phelel differentiate`

The derivatives of local potentials and PAW strengths with respect to
displacement are calculated and stored in `phelel_params.hdf5`.

```bash
% velph phelel differentiate
FFT mesh: [30 30 30].
Running finufft (eps=1.000e-06)...
Running finufft (eps=1.000e-06)...
"phelel/phelel_params.hdf5" has been made.
```

(velph_phelel_phonopy_subcommand)=
### `velph phelel phonopy`

`phonopy_params.yaml` that contains information necessary for phonon calculation
by the phonopy code is generated from `phelel_disp.yaml` and the results of the
VASP inputs generated by `velph phelel generate`.

```bash
% velph phelel phonopy
"phelel/phonopy_params.yaml" has been made.
% phonopy-load phelel/phonopy_params.yaml --band auto -p
```

## `velph transport`

### `velph transport generate`

### `velph transport plot`

## `velph relax`

It is recommended to create a project directory secific for relaxation
calculation, e.g., as

```bash
% ls
POSCAR-unitcell  POTCAR  velph-tmpl.toml
% velph init --template-toml velph-tmpl.toml POSCAR-unitcell relax
...
% cd relax
% ls
POTCAR  velph.toml
% velph relax generate
...
```
### `velph relax generate`

This subcommand generates VASP input files and a job script for crystal
structure relaxation. Initially, these files are created in the `iter1`
directory. The process supports multiple relaxation steps, where the `CONTCAR`
file from the previous iteration is used as the `POSCAR` for the next step once
the preceding VASP calculation is complete. Each subsequent set of input files
is generated in directories named `iter2`, `iter3`, and so on.

```bash
% ls
POTCAR  velph.toml
% velph relax generate
VASP input files were made in "relax/iter1".
...
# Run VASP calculation in relax/iter1
...
% ls
POTCAR  relax/  velph.toml
% velph relax generate
"relax/iter1" exists.
"relax/iter1/CONTCAR" will be as new "POSCAR".
VASP input files were made in "relax/iter2".
...
```

(velph_nac_subcommand)=
## `velph nac`

This subcommand is used to calculate dielectric constant and Born effective
charges that are used for non-analytical term correction of phonon calculation
and treatment of long range term of electron-phonon interaction calculation.

### `velph nac generate`

After the VASP calculation is complete, the dielectric constant and Born
effective charges are extracted from the `vasprun.xml` file during the execution
of `velph phelel init`, `velph phono3py init`, or `velph phonopy init`. The
extracted values are then written to `phelel_disp.yaml`, `phono3py_disp.yaml`,
or `phonopy_disp.yaml`, respectively.

```bash
% velph nac generate
VASP input files were made in "nac".
```

## `velph el_bands`

### `velph el_bands generate`
### `velph el_bands plot`

## `velph ph_bands`

### `velph ph_bands generate`

### `velph ph_bands plot`

## `velph phono3py`

### `velph phono3py init`

### `velph phono3py generate`

## `velph phonopy`

### `velph phonopy init`

### `velph phonopy generate`
